Project HIGHTIDE on OSGi
-------------------------
Goal: Prototype the support to develop web-applications that are contained inside an OSGi bundle.
Target: all of the jetty-hightide example applications.

Architecture: as simple as possible. Bootstrap jetty inside OSGi.
Support registering a web-application entirely contained inside an osgi-bundle either directly as a web-app either through jetty context files.
Support going from the bundle to the file-system without additional configuration parameters: Servlet.getRealPath(String) is supported. 

Favored environment: eclipse-PDE-3.5. Tested on equinox. Should work on felix, nuxeo and knopplerfish.
(Assuming it does not conflict with the HttpService.)

Status:
-------
Works on jetty7.
Basic jsp, jsp with jstl tested. Some bugs and enhancements reported for that. 
Basic jndi also seem to work.

Currently in progress: setup atomikos and derby with the test-jndi webapp.

How-to:
--------
Download Jetty-distribution-7.0.0.RC5.tar.gz (http://repo2.maven.org/maven2/org/eclipse/jetty/jetty-distribution/7.0.0.RC5/jetty-distribution-7.0.0.RC5.tar.gz)
Import all bundles located inside jetty-7.0.0.RC5/lib and inside jetty-7.0.0.RC5/lib/etc as Eclise-Plugins/Linked Content
Import the extra plugins for javax.transaction and java.annotation (see https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=289286)
Fix the manifest of org.eclipse.jetty.continuation (see https://bugs.eclipse.org/bugs/show_bug.cgi?id=289285)
Import the plugin org.intalio.osgi.jetty.server in your workspace
Create a new Run Configuration for an OSGi app:
   Deselect all the platform's bundles.
   Select all the workspace bundles.
   Click on "Add Required Bundles"
   Make sure no dependnecies are missing with "Validate Dependencies"

Start the OSGi execution.
Currently we have classloaders issues and are looking for the best solution.

Presentation
--------------
4 osgi bundles:
- org.intalio.osgi.jetty.server is the engine.
- org.intalio.osgi.webappexample is the example webapp.
- org.intalio.osgi.webcontextexample is the same example webapp except that it is configured via a context file.
- org.eclipse.jetty.hightide.testjndi is the test-jndi application packaged with hightide. and re-packaged as a bundle. (in progress, missing atomikos and derby)

Jetty is started using the traditional jetty.xml file.
jndi, datasources and other would need additonal dependencies so jetty plus would probably not work.

The webapp use an ugly java API to register the bundle as a webapplication.

Next steps:
-------------
We don't want to re-invent the wheel so we are most likely stopping here. This functionality is achieved at least by spring-dm although it is less pleasant to set it up to be able to develop webapps just like one develops an osgi bundle inside eclipse PDE.

Next step would consists of coding proper osgi-services and apply the extender pattern so that the examples don't need to depend on org.intalio.osgi.jetty.server and does not require glue code to register itself as a webapplication.
If we choose wisely the Headers to apply the extender pattern it would be compatible with spring-dm.

FAQ:
----
Does not OSGi support already webapps with the HttpService?
No it does not: it supports registering servlets programatically is all it does.

Does not pax or sping-dm webapp extender do the job already?
Yes they do but they favor a maven approach: build and deploy.
Eclipse-PDE supports running osgi bundles more directly.
